The best and most performant database solution
depends on the requirements of your application for availability,
consistency, latency, scalability, and query capability.
It is important to take a data-driven approach
to choosing your database to prevent making
a decision based on culture or
tradition that leads to a database that doesn't perform efficiently.
Traditionally, in an on-premises model,
a company standardizes on one database vendor and tries to make it work for
every application by enabling features and making tweaks to improve performance.
With AWS relational database service and DynamoDB,
it's possible to select the best database for your workload,
and with the RDS model you can leverage the fully managed service provided by AWS,
reducing effort of managing and maintaining a database as databases that are provided as
managed services remove or reduce the effort of managing so many database servers.
When you leverage Amazon RDS,
you keep your database engine,
which is Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, or MySQL,
MariaDB, or postgresSQL, or choose AWS Aurora,
and benefit from an automated and managed service environment.
In this RDS model,
you are no longer responsible for optimizing compute,
memory, storage, or networking.
You don't have to worry about raid configuration, volume management,
database engine configuration, or the databases themselves.
You're only responsible for managing the schemas,
indexes, views, and database related options.
With RDS, Amazon provides automation for most of the optimization tasks.
With AWS, the customer's responsible for selecting the most appropriate instance and
storage types and tuning
the database configuration with the available options and perimeter groups,
and of course, optimizing the database,
the schemas, the indexes and views,
and other database related options.
Now, despite the numerous benefits of RDS,
it can be quite expensive when compared to running your database
yourself on say, an EC2 instance.
It is even more costly when your database is over provisioned.
While you may want to use burstable or memory optimized instances for your RDS instance,
you need to make sure you're provisioning decisions are
based on your metrics and your insights.